
lane greene is a language journalist and the author of the book, talk on the wild side. here he explains to bbc radio 4 programme, word of mouth, how apps like google translate allow users to manually translate metaphors:
rob
it wouldn’t make sense to translate this phrase into another language literally, word by word. one solution is to translate the whole idiom as a chunk, or a large part of text or language.
amazing! in this programme we’re discussing language technologies – computers that can translate between languages. modern software like google translate has transformed how we learn foreign languages, bringing us closer to a world where language is no longer a barrier to communication. but how well do these computers know what we really mean to say?
daniella relph
ok, sam. i’ll reveal the correct answer later in the programme. computer software used to rely on rules-based translation, applying the grammar rules of one language to another. that worked fine for simple words and phrases, but what happens when a translator comes across more complex language, for example metaphors - expressions used to describe one thing by comparing it to another.
yes, if only braniff airlines had relied on human translators, they might have avoided an embarrassing situation.
jemma melvin
rote learning involves memorising information which you repeat but don’t really understand.
later we’ll find out exactly what machines can and can’t translate, and, as usual, we’ll be learning some new vocabulary as well. but first i have a question for you, sam. the translation app i used just now is very recent, but there’s a long history of computer mistranslations - times when computers got it badly wrong. in 1987, the american airline, braniff, ran television adverts promoting the all-leather seats installed on their flights to mexico. but how was its “fly in leather” advertising slogan mistranslated into spanish? did the advert say: a) fly in lava; b) fly on a cow c) fly naked.
Lusia Latu-Jones
this kind of rote learning can be easily automated - done by machines instead of humans. but it’s completely different from human learning requiring creative thinking which would flummox – or confuse, even the most sophisticated machine.
is the first british monarch ever to spend 70 years on the throne. and i have a
i hear you, and in a war against the machines, our advantage is novelty and creativity. so you’re right that machines will be great at anything that is rote, anything that’s already been done a million times can be automated. so you and i with our pre-frontal cortexes can try to come up with phrases that’ll flummox the computer and so keep our jobs.
a chunk is a large part of something.
and i’m sam. rob, i’m writing a letter to a friend in spain and i need some help. do you know the spanish for, ‘it’s raining’?
this works for phrases and idioms that people regularly use in the same way because they can be taught to a computer. but what happens when someone like a poet writes a completely new sentence which has never been written before? lane greene thinks that even the smartest software couldn’t deal with that, as he told michael rosen, poet and presenter of bbc radio 4’s, word of mouth:
bye!
…if a poet writes a new one then the machine is not going to pick it up, and it’s going to have a struggle, isn’t it? sorry, i’m sticking up for poetry here and trying to claim that it’s untranslatable – can you hear what i’m doing?
if i say, ‘it’s raining cats and dogs’ and it literally translates, ‘esta lloviendo perros y gatos’ in spanish, that won’t make any sense, but i think somebody at google will have inputted the phrase, ‘lueve a cántaros’ which is the phrase, ‘it’s raining pitchers’, or ‘it’s raining jugs of water’, so that the whole chunk, ‘raining cats and dogs’, is translated into the equivalent metaphor in spanish.
sam
hello. this is 6 minute english from bbc learning english. i’m rob.
michael rosen 14’31”
and finally, if someone is flummoxed, they’re so confused that they don’t know what to do!
lane wants to translate the phrase, it’s raining cats and dogs, something that people sometimes say when it’s raining heavily.
Ofa Ma'asi Kaisamy
Rob
once again our six minutes are up! join us again soon for more trending topics and useful vocabulary here at 6 minute english. goodbye for now!
neil
and find jobs. Here’s project director, Lusia Latu-Jones, speaking with BBC World
bad news for translation software, but good news for humans who use different languages in their jobs – like us!
when we say machines “learn” a language, we really mean they have been trained to identify patterns in millions and millions of translations. computers can only learn by rote - by memory in order to repeat information rather than to properly understand it.
often found in poetry, a metaphor is a way of describing something by reference to something else.
hmm, i have a feeling it might be, c) fly naked.
don’t worry, i have this new app… i just hold up my phone, scan the word i want translated, uh, ‘esta lloviendo’, is the spanish for, ‘it’s raining’.
ah, in your question you asked how braniff’s television advertisement “fly in leather” was translated into spanish. i guessed it was mistranslated as “fly naked’.
lane greene
when it’s raining heavily you might use the idiom, it’s raining cats and dogs!
ok, let’s recap the vocabulary from this programme about language translations which are automated - done by machines instead of humans.
Sam
which was… the correct answer! braniff translated its "fly in leather" slogan as fly "en cuero," which sounds like spanish slang for "fly naked”.