OK,welcome back english pod users today.
We are continuing with our interview skills series.
This is lesson number four,my name is jennifer,and this is jason,and this lesson is probably one of the most important parts.
Often an interview right because the interview's always talking about your previous work experience yes employers are often interested in your past experience because your past experience says a lot about your qualifications.
Right for the current position对，因为在找工作的时候，人家最关心的就是你的工作经验，工作经历是吧？
那么，我们这一课呢？
就会来讲怎么样去描述自己的工作经历？
So today we're going to continue listening to MR parsons and re.
You'll remember that last time we talked about rebecca's educational background,right？
就是先是问它的那个教育背景，然后现在就问道问道，后面就变成问他的那个工作背景了，right？
So let's listen to the way that MR parsons encourages Rebecca to speak about her professional experiences.
MM hmm so before we listen to the dialogue,there's one key piece of vocabulary that we want to point out to you and that is that Rebecca was working at a local.
Paper,a local paper,local又是当地的right paper,这里指的就是newspaper that's exactly right here,she's referring to a local newspaper or a small.
Newspaper对因为很多城市都有当地的一个报纸so with that in mind,
Let's go ahead and listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Right Rebecca,now I see that after graduating from university,your first job was for a local paper in york called the york herald.
Actually,I started with them as an intern.
I was really keen on getting some experience in journalism,and this seemed like a good first step.
Certainly and after your internship,they seemed impressed and offered me a position as a junior local news reporter.
I ended up staying two years there,actually I was in charge of the sports news section of the newspaper.
I really enjoyed it there,and it really helped me build my skills.
Yes,I see,but you decided to leave them in two thousand and six right.
Yes,
That's right,my husband and I moved to London,and so I managed to find a position with a national newspaper based in London.
To London weekly,right?
Yes,in some ways it was a step down from my previous job,but it did offer me much better prospects for the future.
So now we know that Rebecca is in the newspaper field seems like she is a writer doesn't it.
Well,last time she talked about she was kin on writing,right?
Yes,I think Rebecca is kind of special because she is actually working in the industry.
That she studied a degree for seems like so many people today get a degree in one thing but end up working in a completely different field.
那这个它就是专业对口。
There you go,
You even have an expression.
You have a chung,you for it in Chinese,WOW,haha,that's how common it is good.
So let's go to language takeaway and see some of the specific vocabulary words that have to do with rebecca's job.
Experience,right?
Language take away.
So I think miss parsons,从一开始她就是问她那个大学毕业以后的第一份工作right,I'm Rebecca,她第一份工作，她是work for this local newspaper,that's right.
Although I'm not sure you can really call it a job,
It was an internship alright,she said she.
She said,I started with them as an intern that's right an intern.
So that means that you know obviously she was doing work but getting paid either very little or nothing at all，现在好像在。
中国市面上是50块钱一天啊，做一个inter OK,just a little bit to cover your expenses,right？
Yeah,kind of some company company doesn't even offer money.
Yeah,but like internship really,really important.
Yeah,
I think you're right,especially depending on the current economic situation,right,for example,in my case,I never worked as an intern.
But that's because I graduated in the s when the economy was booming in the USA.
So it was pretty easy to find work right,but for today's graduates,it's very difficult to get a job immediately out of college.
College with no work experience,right?
I mean,that's just for the United States,right?
Where in China?
You know,finding work has always been a top thing everybody just,you know,
Because a lot of graduates.
Right like every year is a lot of lots of graduates,you know what I think is another thing too,is that in China often times when people graduate from university,they have no work experience at all对，但现在很多大学生开始注意这一点了。
啊，比如说我们公司有很多的intern,对吧？
而且他们毕业了之后，我们还继续录用他们玩，that's right good,so again that word just to practice is intern实习生。
Intern啊，还有一个internship right hmm okays ookay,
Let's do it again,i'll say intern internship intern hubba OK OK intern实习生。
Internship啊，就是实习intern实习生。
And Rebecca goes on to talk about her experience,and she lets US know her field of work when she says she has experience in journalism.
对，那个就是很多工作中的一种啊，就是新闻业right right so journalism,this is talking about the field or the area that she works in.
We know it's a noun because it ends with ism.
Ism,yes,isn't right,说记者或者是一个，
你是一个，一般是记者就journalist right right.
Right？
She's at结尾的journalist,right？
So we can see the same pattern,in other words,like,for example,with tourism and tourist,tourist,right,right,exactly so journalism,新闻业，
Journalism.
英文页journalism那jennifer他后面那个Rebecca在最后的地方，他说in some ways it was a step down from my previous job,yes Rebecca used to be.
It seems like the manager or the leader of a section at the newspaper in the smaller the local newspaper right in the local papers he worked out in york,but then when she moved to London.
She was a regular journalist,it seems without not managing people.
Other people对，因为它就是这个鱼池变大了，那么它那个植物就下来了。
是吧yeah,so she says it was a step down in that her job title was not as prestigious.
对，比如说你原来他是一个经理，
然后你到了大公司就变成一个职员了，你这就是一个step down,yeah yeah,but it seems like in other ways we could say it was kind of a step up because the newspaper that she was working for in line.
Is obviously more prestigious than the newspaper that she was working for in york,嗯哼，就像你在街边卖包子，你是老板，然后你去了世界500强，当了个员工啊，你就是step down,但是但其某种程度上你也是一个。
Bob,right,right,
So we can use this phrase as both a noun or a verb.
We can say it was a step down that's a noun,uh huh,or you can say I stepped down from my position as.
Managing editor OK就是我退下来right I step down包括你很多的那个political leaders,you can also say step down,yeah,it happens a lot if there's like a scandal.
Or they get caught doing something bad,and they'll be like,oh,sorry,I step down.
I'm going to step down,or I'm going to resign,right?
Or to see you off a company can also step down right just like Bill gates did yep good okay so again that's a step down.
啊，是退下来oh should i do it as a verbal announced？
Oh,let's do it noun first,OK,a yuh noun verb noun,let's just do noun,let's just do no UNO kay.
A step down啊，是降一级了，a step down啊，从原来地方降一级，a step down.
So jennifer,呃，
那个Rebecca,他愿意去take this a step down这份工作的原因，就是因为it offered her much better price.
Prospects for the future,yeah,prospects that's a great word,isn't it?
Prospects has to do with your.
Um hope or opportunities that you have in the future an example of this of prospects was,for example,in the United States.
In the eighteen hundred,yeah,they discovered gold才发现了黄金alright,so people that went to those areas where gold had been discovered with the purpose of looking for gold were called prosperity.
直接淘金者yeah yeah exactly posing books yes yes so they're going and they're looking for something really valuable.
That will make them rich,oh OK,so that offers good prospects exactly exactly they were looking for prospects.
When they're looking for gold,it's not certain that they will find gold,but since they're there,their opportunities of finding gold are much higher than somebody living in new york city definitely,definitely.
So就是就是我们讲的有前途，就是this job has a good prospect,就是这个工作很有前途，and that job doesn't offer a good prospect,right？
就是没有前途，right？
So prospects have to do with opportunities future opportunities future.
That's why for the future right offering me much better prospects for the future good.
So again,that's prospects.
啊，前途prospects啊，前途prospects啊，这里这句话我觉得很多人可以直接拿下来用啊，就是你要问你为什么，你觉得你要跳跳槽，或者是做这个工作，换这个工作。
啊，这是一个非常非常好的一个一个一个理由啊，就是它offer you better prospects for the future right right,or you could also say room for growth room for growth,
That's another really common就是growth的空间，right？
可以去增加增加增加，让自己成长的一个空间room for growth excellent good,let's move on to say it right.
Say it right.
因为很多人啊，他就说在描述自己的这个以前的工作是吧？
他说哦，我去了这个公司或怎么怎么样so I worked for ABC company.
And i did this job.
I was a marketing assistant,他们这样讲是吧？
那这样讲也可以，但是感觉有点有点就是呆板啊，
那么在你看那个这里是怎么讲？
他说。
They offered me a position as a junior local news reporter m'm home.
It's a junior local news reporter,it's a good position,right?
Uh huh,that is.
Um,this is a good phrase to use if you have changed job titles within one company like Rebecca,did she started off as an intern and after her internship was completed she?
She was offered a position as a local news reporter啊哈，就是你可以讲啊，某某公司offer you a position.
As这个position的名字right right or if you're talking about a specific position with a very specific name,you could say that.
Uh,
She offered me the position of uh managing director for all asia,uh huh,like uh.
Like president obama offered a hillary clinton,the position of the secretary of the state excellent example,yes,exactly like that because that's only one position in that.
So that's the position that's right,that's right the position.
And the english poll offered me the position of the english pot host.
There you go,exactly,and there's only one jason hahaha good,so that was offered someone a position as.
啊，就是给某个人去提供了这个职位啊，工作是什么？
那下面另外一个非常好的一个词组，就是说你要说哎我当时是负责这个这个活动是吧？
因为很多你看简历负责什么什么什么那个那个怎么讲，下面就有yeah Rebecca used that particular phrase in charge of.
Or be in charge of right,so I was in charge of the sports news section MM hmm.
This is a great phrase,but.
Yeah,it's important not to use it too much because if you only tell your prospective employer what your responsibilities were .
That doesn't necessarily speak to what you accomplished啊，就你要真正有什么成就，有什么成绩，你光讲你负责什么，但你负责的一塌糊涂是吧？
你要其实有时候你要你的意思是说你要更加关注你的一个成绩accomplishments,
Alright？
So this is a really good phrase,but don't substitute it for action words.
Describing what you were able to do the results,you were able to achieve in your position as an example of some of these action words you might say that I initiated new quality assurance systems.
Initiated就是一个我去做了这个事情，我去创造了这个东西，开创了这个东西。
Right or I achieved a one hundred and fifty percent sales growth.
啊，我达到了，我完成了啊right so those are some good phrases Rebecca uses another phrase that's really useful when you're talking about a past position where you learned a lot.
She said that working at,this newspaper in york,helped her build her skills,
Build her skills yeah I really like this because it's kind of like she's thinking of her.
Career as a house or a building不去建造是吧？
去慢慢去培养获得的这个skills,yeah,and the things that she learns are like bricks.
Or components in that house to eventually make her career complete啊？
其实我们啊，很多人会讲哦，这个让我学到了很多东西，让我增长了很多的见识，或者让我学到了很多的技能。
然后就是呃，我们可很多人可能会想oh let me learn a lot of skills,那这个就很中国化的一个讲法啊，所以这个就是也讲的非常好，
I really enjoyed it there and it really helped me build my skills.
All right,对这句话你拿来就可以用，yeah,this is a really powerful,really useful phrase to build your skills.
It shows that you take your skills seriously.
Yeah,and you have an attitude of building skills,right？
Yeah,that it's always a work in progress.
Right？
So that's build my skills啊，增长了我的技能，
Build my skills,让我的技能不断增长，build my skills.
Um,and there's one more phrase that Rebecca used jason that I think our users will find really useful.
She said that she managed to find a position at a London newspaper.
Hmm managed,too.
Yeah,I think it might be easy to confuse the phrase managed,too,with the verb managed.
All right I manage five people right exactly exactly,but when you manage to do something,that means that the thing that you're trying to do is really difficult .
It's not easy to do,maybe you have a lot of competition a lot of difficulties,
A lot of difficulties but somehow you manage to get it done,you find a way to get it done,are you successful and you're successful?
Yes,that's right.
That's pretty good.
It is pretty good,and I'm sure you know that journalism is a really competitive field.
And the bigger the city that you live in,the more competitive the field is so for Rebecca to manage to find a position with.
This newspaper in London that was difficult AH.
AH,that's why she managed to find it right.
Yeah,that's right,it's kind of the same thing in like China right now in the big cities if,you are a college graduate啊，大学毕业生。
那么很多人这边就是他managed.
To find a good job in a big company,yeah,that's right I remember especially I think in two thousand and nine.
The amount of graduates who had managed to.
Find a job before they actually graduated university was very low hmm because the job market was so competitive,all right right,it was the furnished crisis as well,exactly exactly so that's managed to do something to.
OK,let's listen to the dialogue one more time and pay special attention to the words from language takeaway and the phrases from,say,it right to see how Rebecca and MR parsons use them will be right back for an outro.
Right Rebecca,now I see that after graduating from university,your first job was for a local paper in york called the york herald.
Actually,I started with them as an intern.
I was really keen on getting some experience in journalism,and this seemed like a good first step.
Certainly and after your internship,they seemed impressed and offered me a position as a junior local news reporter.
I ended up staying two years there,actually I was in charge of the sports news section of the newspaper.
I really enjoyed it there,and it really helped me build my skills.
Yes,I see,but you decided to leave them in two thousand and six right yes that's right my husband and I moved to London,and so I managed to find a position with a national newspaper based in London.
To London weekly,right yes in some ways,it was a step down from my previous job,
But it did offer me much better prospects for the future.
哦jennifer我注意到那个MR parsons啊，他这个整个一个问问题是非常有非常有技巧的，very skillful嗯，他没有问，比如说是oh what did you do after your internship？
There's certainly,and your after internship,yeah,he asks these very open ended questions that don't have just a yes or a no answer.
It's like he's sort of throwing a ball very gently to Rebecca to see how she catches it啊，就是让jennifer自由去发挥，然后他在那边观察jennifer是。
呃，是怎么回答的？
Right,you're confusing me and Rebecca,right？
And it's also important to notice the way that Rebecca replies.
I think the most difficult thing in an interview is to find the balance between telling enough information about yourself and not telling too much information .
Well,I understand about telling very little information.
Because有些人去面试的时候，人家问你啊，你这个活怎么跟你这个工作是怎么怎么样，他基本就是读一遍简历。
Right啊，那个就是很糟糕了，你不要这样那么呃，应该怎么样well？
You know Rebecca provides a really good example for US when MR parsons asked about what happened after her internship.
If we look at that dialogue again,she starts off by telling MR parsons the reaction that her employer had to her.
Right?
They seemed impressed good,and the results of that reaction number two was that they offered me a position as a junior local news reporter good.
So that's the result of being impressed exactly.
That's the result of the company's being impressed with her work,it's not just conceptual,就是完全理论化，oh,they're impressed.
Oh,they like my work,right?
So she actually backed it up by saying,oh,
They actually offered me a position because they're so impressed.
That's right and that actually answers MR parsons questions.
Right there,but Rebecca continues she gives mister parsons more information because she knows that he is looking for a little bit more about this position.
哈哈，number three she tells them how long.
She remained in the position as the junior local news reporter aha she said i ended up staying two years there actually well that's really important information right that is.
She goes on to explain her job responsibilities.
I was in charge of the sports new section of the newspaper,it's more details of the job.
Exactly and finally really important,she tells MR parsons what she took away from that job,what she learned from that job,and she said,I really enjoyed it and it really helped me build my skills,right?
这样的一个护牙是非常完整的，
完善的，让人家听着很舒服，而且知道从头到尾很合理啊，整个刚才它那个框架啊，詹尼弗总结的框架，我觉得呃，很多人现在拿来就可以用。
What's really good about the way that Rebecca answers here,is that she tells MR parsons what her previous employer thought about her as well as what she thought about them and?
How she benefited from working with them,so it's a really Nice,really complete answer right,so Rebecca makes a really Nice balance here with providing a little bit of personal information about herself so that she seems conversational.
And open it's not like she's hiding anything but at the same time she doesn't talk too much,
She knows when to be quiet and let MR parsons ask her for the information that he is most interested in.
嗯哈，按照你刚才那个公式，其实是一个非常好的方式，就是你不会你说的太多，也不会说的太少是吧？
Alright,well,that pretty much wraps it up for this.
The fourth lesson in our interview skills series,we hope you enjoyed this lesson and we hope you will tune in next week to see how things continue between MR parker.
And s right,and if you have any questions regarding interview regarding this lesson下，下面的那个评论啊，里面去写你的问题，yeah,
If you want to share any funny or interesting interview stories with US,we'd love to hear those as well.
Nice take care of everybody bye for now bye.